---
title: "Yale Verse Harvard"
date: 2021-11-21
tags: poem
---

# Yale Verse Harvard

shall we  
join the student section,  
or the family at the top row  
taking a stroll around the   
yale bowl?  
  
i'm sure those kids feel like  
they are on top of the world,  
and the boys on the field feel like  
they are the center of it.  
  
today, they are.  
  
magnets for wealthy alumni  
and the merely interested,  
attracting the sort of people  
who talk about "endowments"  
in reference to dollar amounts.  
  
it bothers me   
that some people   
don't understand:  
  
it's yale  
"versus"  
harvard,  
not yale  
"verse"  
harvard.  
  
these top-ten-percenters  
should know better,  
the five-percenters  
aren't invited here,  
and the three-percenters  
only attend s.e.c. games.  
  
three-quarters full   
two quarters in,  
the same metro north we arrived in  
delivers new york city to  
new haven's promised land,  
only two days ago i heard  
a girl planning her outfit for today  
at the end of my block.  
  
she said:  
  
"i'll see you at the game!"  
  
and i did not see her today,  
or i did see her today, many times over,  
in the similar bright eyes and  
clean faces of pretty, rich, northeasterners.  
  
the tall ginger boy found his yale merch  
on the walk to the stadium  
  
the boy with the flat top bought his  
yale hoodie years ago but attends n.y.u.  
  
which are the real students,  
which are the true alumni,  
and who here is keeping score?  
  
the little kids at the top of the stadium  
are more exciting to watch than the  
meddling between television timeouts,  
and the score reads twenty-something  
to thirty-something.  
  
a girl with hair of a perfect sheen  
climbs back and forth  
the social strata, up and down  
the yale bowl, a grand smile  
for every picture, a blanket  
wrapped around her torso,  
and no mind to pay for football.  
  
i thought her stand climbing  
was a symptom of other hopes for  
social ascension, but this group  
she's with only makes her feel like  
the prettiest girl in the group:  
not popular.  
  
a boy with a bowl-like stomach  
stands with his sleeveless shirt  
just over his chest, shouting and smiling.  
  
he once catches my eye,   
i give him a thumbs up,  
knowing that the loudest in the room  
is the one who most needs to feel heard.  
  
the sun rose in the east  
and set in the early afternoon.  
a dark and cold student section  
watched warm crimson spill  
onto the field, glowing from victory,  
evening sun, and many bachelor and  
graduate degrees of smugness.  
