---
title: "The New Office"
excerpt: "Doing freelance a little more seriously."
date: 2023-12-31
tags: Essay
---

It's been a long time since I updated anyone on my life and at the end of this year, it feels like much is coming together.

I'll avoid a self-indulgent recounting of the year and instead leave you with some inflection points.

- I left a company I started.
- I went through the toughest break-up of my life.
- I went to Europe for 4 months, spending most of that in Oslo.
- I made new friends and lost a handful. I felt less alone.
- **I'm more capable than I've ever been — and am feeling the intense need to do something with that.**

I think often of the story of [the businessman and the fisherman](https://thestorytellers.com/the-businessman-and-the-fisherman/), and today, I wonder: what's my version of fishing?

In the world of careers, and particularly in startups, it seems like every founder is chasing a big exit that will make them a centimillion-if-not-billionaire. Then, with plenty of money in the bank, we could cash in and do what we loved to do. If I had that cash-out money already, what would I still do?

Truth is, I would write a lot, I would spend as much time talking shit (and shop) with people I respect. I *might* move to Paris, Zurich or Vienna[^this needs more unpacking, but I think my desire to move away from New York is because I don't feel like there's anything *here* for me, and that's not true unless I don't put myself out there. I'm constantly searching for wherever gravity is, and New York has that gravity, but for some reason, I'm not tapped into it. I need to rediscover why I'm here because it's not to chase the dream of a West Village townhouse and settle down.]. I would buy lots of nice furniture and a Phoebe Philo handbag. I would spend most of my time in a beautifully lit and impeccably furnished studio. I would focus on becoming well-known and constantly in dialogue with beautiful and powerful people. I would use my well-known-ness to search for a lovematch, and love them incessantly.

All of those things are very much in reach.

I have written on a goal sheet, *"Whatever you think you can achieve, think more, and think faster."* The fact that my goals as listed above are straightforward and in reach, these words ring true. Perhaps the only thing I'm missing is the mental cliff jump to make them reality.

# The Private Office

With the mission of achieving and sustaining those not-so-distant dreams, I am evolving from an independent freelancer to a **personal enterprise**. A private office[^I feel like there's a great opportunity to name this practice something clever or weighty. I love names like Terms-Eccles, Proenza Schouler, and Berner Kuhl, and some sort of compound name like this would make me very happy.], of sorts, with a staff, business plan, metrics, and all.

1. To fund the dream: **Client work**
2. To create perpetual motion: **Publishing**
3. To leave room for surprise: **Ventures**

Each of these pillars supports the other. In particular, the publishing (and associated publicity) is key to driving demand for client work and future ventures.

# 1 — Client Work

Today, I'm freelancing with relative success, but there are a few points of tension:

- The pipeline of work feels unsteady.
- All of my clients feel tech-focused.
- Selling my time, a limited resource, is tolling.
- The design work I do feels increasingly commoditized.

So, some changes need to happen:

- **I need to not only do the work, but do a great job of explaining its value.** I'll be changing my case studies from galleries to stories so that any new clients that ask about what I do can intuitively understand that I can change their entire business trajectory in just a few weeks of paying me.
- **I need to build my own brand and voice so more people know about me.** This will allow me to pick and choose my clients and find more places to make an impact outside of tech. (The answer here might also be to achieve my cultural relevance via my publishing, rather than try to shoehorn it into the design work I do.)
- **I need to get a junior designer who can help me out part-time.** All they need to do is generate ideas and push work forward. I don't do a lot of production work, so I won't need help with that, which should make finding a part-time design assistant a bit easier.
- **I need to reposition what I do from graphic design to business transformation.** I sell my voice, my reframings, my strategy, my positioning — not my graphics. This will happen with my publishing efforts, and by changing my case studies to reflect this repositioning.

# 2 — Publishing

Overall, I have done poorly at marketing myself as a designer, writer, founder, and person. Publishing online is the way to remedy this.

One preliminary step I need to define for myself is where I'll publish. The simplest version should be a blog on my website, which will go along with a slightly larger redesign that explains what I do.

Once that's set up, there are two categories of publishing that matter to me:

## **2a — Publishing about Design and Business**

I'll be writing stories about the projects I do professionally. These will help close new clients and position my expertise in the world of creative services.

- **Lorescan**:  \
Building a behemoth, all-in-one product the right way
- **Bonside**:  \
Defining an asset class for brick-and-mortar
- **Lockchain**:  \
From a security company to risk management authority
- **Medium**:  \
The inside baseball of a controversial rebrand
- **Nation**:  \
The name and original pitch of my first company
- **Vellum**:  \
A thesis that could change legality forever
- **Scope3**:  \
A new identity and product marketing architecture

## **2b — Publishing to Develop My Voice**

Premises like[^I apologize if these don't quite make sense on first read. I wish them to be intriguing enough for someone in the wild to click on. They will rely heavily on great subtitles.]:

- **Preliminary Thoughts for a New Federalism**:  \
Conceptualizing a resurgence in a direct-representation republic
- **Genderblame**:  \
We are different and the same, and we are all to blame.
- **Friendcest**:  \
A survey of friend group infucking in New York City
- **Non-commercial martyrs**:  \
In search of PS1, 501, Diorshow, and other loss-subsidizing products.
- **The Roots of All Clout**:  \
Asking the cool kids of New York City how they all came to know each other

And on social media, I need to share more of what I'm reading and thinking about, in short form content. Some ideas:

- Take a cue from Corwin and publish a reel once a week of “The

 top 7 articles I read this week and why”
- Highlight more things and share them on Instagram stories / x
- Do more book reviews every time I finish a book

The editorial mission of each of the above categories is different, but ultimately all should serve to make me more visible as a designer, writer, and founder.

An exciting development in the publishing aspect of the business is that **I'm enlisting the help of an editor, a friend, Ellie Lynch**. Ellie will help take my early drafts and push, pull, prod, and poke at the concepts inside. They will also be tasked with being a project manager of sorts, making sure that I take a look at drafts and publish on a consistent basis.

# 3 — Ventures

These are the experiments for big, sustainable, scalable revenue. Long term, **these seeds are my escape from selling time**, and to do that, I have either to develop breakthrough products or build a company with a clear path to profit and a high valuation.

## Terms

So far:

- We've got a landing page that feels incredibly real to customers
- We have a waitlist of sorts
- We have a clear path to market the product on multiple design blogs

We submitted to YCombinator and didn't get an interview, and it prompted a thought experiment for me: if we got a $500,000 check today, what would we even do with it?

We'd do simple things. Like marketing and testing and trying our own product out. So, to make progress, there are a few paths:

**(1) Bootstrap.** Corissa and I can bootstrap the beginning and break even for long enough to show traction and go raise based off of that, then commit to the project long-term. This requires a real mutual understanding of our exit plan and intention to raise.

**(2) Market then Build.** We can spin up the marketing engine arbitrarily and build whatever software or product ends up being the most desired. That could be:

- Calendly-for-freelance availability
- Simple invoicing software
- Two-sided marketplace to connect to lawyers
- Collections-as-a-service
- Invoice factoring
- ...

We can and should use the publishing momentum to talk about the problem Terms aims to solve, and perhaps even advertise that into a sizable waitlist.

**‌(3) Fundraise.** We could fundraise without making any more significant progress, but that doesn't feel right at all.

## Unnamed Audioblog

I've been thinking a lot about publications like Doomberg, 032c, Puck, Grant's, and how much (light) envy I feel for what these teams have created. Following that envy as a guide for what I want seems smart — it's what I keep talking about and am obsessed with.

I would love to build a publication that earns the respect of scenesters, writers, influencers, and publishers alike. Mainly, I'm interested in launching an audioblog. Not a podcast — an audioblog.

- It'll have a **custom-designed, audio-focused website** that has fancy, beautiful audio controls and **a way to go down the rabbit hole** of all of the audio on the website.
- It needs to have a clear editorial point-of-view that is easily expressed. I might be wrong, but my instinct tells me that the publication won't succeed if the custom design and audio features are the only thing setting it apart. **It still needs a voice.**

# Other Goals

**Get a studio.** I reached out to a handful of spaces, and all of them are remarkably affordable. Of course, if I have my own space, I'll need to pay another internet bill and get some furniture:

| Item | Cost |
|:--|:--|
| Floor lamp | $500 |
| Desk | $1,000 |
| Display | Have |
| Table lamp | Have |
| Bookshelf | $500 |
| Office chair | Can get for free |
| **Total** | **$2,000** |

In the spirit of not spending money (see the metrics section of this letter below), this goal may deserve some waiting time. When the time comes, I'll be incredibly pleased to have a space I can make my own.[^It's worth saying that I have a strong apprehension about staying in New York. I can see myself falling in love and that doubt falling away instantly, but for now, I keep thinking about Zurich, Vienna, or Paris, where — if I had a visa — I could afford way more apartment & studio, for way less money. Perusing the france-visas.gouv.fr website lightly, this seems very possible.]

**More great friendships.** Naomi and I are on rocky terms, and I'm unsure we'll continue to be friends when she's back from London. This breaks my heart even though it may be the right thing to do. I have many great friends otherwise: Bradley, Anvita, Eliz, Bryce, Drew, and Emilia, for example.

I want to expand my friend group to include people who, in the next 3–5 years, will be taking off in interesting careers. I would like to know tomorrow's Brenda Weischer and Lauren Sherman before they become who they are destined to be.

As far as dating goes, I'm in no rush. I know what I want, and as with all matters of the heart, I'll know when I find it. Nikita was an interesting case at the end of this year, for a few reasons, and I'm glad to report my ego isn't so hurt that it didn't work out. That I don't need to challenge the situation is a sign of maturity I didn't have last year.

# Metrics

At the end of every entry in Doomberg's series, *[The Work of My Life](https://doomberg.substack.com/p/redefining-rich)*, they include some metrics of their progress as a publication. They measure their **** and followers. (I like that these are, for the most part, **cumulative**. Any forward progress is *good* progress.)

I, too, have some metrics, and they'll map to each “division” of my “office”.

**Money**

| | Oct | Nov | Dec |
|:-- |:--|:--|:--|
| **Revenue** | $8,000 | $8,000 | $14,448 |
| **After taxes** | $5,600 | $5,600 | $10,758[^You may notice that this proportion isn't quite the above revenue amount minus 30%, and this is because Collins is paying me as a W-2 employee and thus my taxes are already accounted for.] |
| **Expenses** | ($9,815.77) | ($9,778.13) | ($8,013.48) |
| **P/L** | ($4,215.77) | ($4,178.13) | **$2,744.52** |

This year's bottom line is not positive. **I lost $3,125.41 since the year began.**  It was a rocky year, and it doesn't feel at all representative of how I want to manage my money going into 2024. Many things that were unstable...

- Left Nation, received severance, didn't work for a bit
- Traveled the world chaotically as post-Nation escapism
- Moved into a new apartment and outfitted it accordingly

...will not be unstable in the coming year. even then, a handful of expenses (and many handfuls of smaller, ~$400 purchases) made this year a loss. next year: fewer clothes, no *Grant's* conference (or subscription), and I'll try my best not to afford anymore handbags. I'm back on mom's Amazon account to buy all of my books, which alone should save me a couple grand.

From here on out, the rule is this: I can spend my profit in a given month. but **no month, from here on out, should ever be a loss.**[^aside from the general chaos of this year, I think my poor understanding of my *after tax* earnings has contributed to my spending. In YNAB, it's easy to think that I have earned and am keeping more money than I am, because the money I set aside for taxes appears as an asset, even though it's really a liability. I might try to set that up as a debt in YNAB, but for the purposes of these reports, I just need to do the math and account for it immediately so I don't see it as true earnings.]

**Publicity**

So far, my publicity efforts have amounted to zero. I tried to post a handful of book reviews a few months ago, but they never quite felt like real efforts. I want to post much more naturally, a la Brenda Weischer, and i want to post higher-value, a la Lauren Sherman.

So, in the words of Pema Chödrön, I'm “starting where I am”:

- **Posts published:** 0
- **Instagram followers:** 2,215
- **Twitter followers:** 299

My next efforts will include:

- Sharing my writing more on my instagram
- Participating in more dialogue on **X** and **Substack Notes**
- Publishing at least twice a month with ellie's help
- Landing features with other blogs and creators[^some ideas to get started: the brand identity, how brands are built, zehra naqvi's the z list, corwin's newsletter]


