---
title: "Lockchain learnings distillation"
date: 2023-12-10
tags: journal
---
This is a quick write-up of:

- What I’ve learned so far
- Some thoughts on things we should do
- Some headlines and messaging to explain Lockchain

# This is not a DevOps/security platform, it’s a risk management platform that monitors the risk of security.

In crypto financial risk is as critical as technical security risk. Lockchain helps you navigate that.

# The platform is best shown, not explained.

We should do something like [Privy’s demo](https://demo.privy.io), or [Notion’s](https://www.notion.so) early embedded demos.

A demo should show what is possible to monitor, and what intelligence you can gain from that.

Like Privy’s demo, it might be helpful to visualize multiple **modules** to show that Lockchain doesn’t just provide data, it allows you to drill into the risks of the assets you hold.

# The brand has to be trusted by institutions, and innovative enough for Web3.

Asset managers are buying outcomes, and want to know that the data is trustworthy and fast. Individual investors

# The customer architecture:

1. Asset managers at large institutions
  2. The literal person is a/could be a portfolio manager
2. Individual investors/offices
  3. Also a portfolio manager, ops, or risk
3. Researchers/regulatory-side
4. [...non-specific] Web3 citizens

Notably, the platform is about the same for everyone, it seems.

# The product architecture:

1. Continuous due diligence (conduct due diligence of digital assets once a minute, not once a quarter)
2. Real-time event tracking ()
3. Instant reactions (automated actions based on triggers)
2. Lockchain API (connect Lockchain’s monitoring to your trading platform)

```
Q: What features might be turned off or on for different customers, if any?

A: What would be turned on? Some only care about cdd...

Continuous Due Diligence
Custody + Exchange Monitoring
Watchlist Intelligence
  - Really cool that you can see around the corner with byproduct effects, **‌contagion risk**
Notifications + Feeds
API Access
Compliance Integrations
Automation
```

# Lockchain’s opinion needs to become trusted over time, and a standardized rating system will make that easier

Currently, the use of 1–5 throughout the entire platform makes it seem like there might be *cumulative scoring*, or some other numerical system that isn’t so.

One thing that seems unique about Lockchain’s ratings is that it *isn’t* cumulative, it’s reflective of multiple axes. What about a three-axis rating system where each number means something different? **e.g., 3-4-1 means 3 on trust, 4 on security, 1 on external resilience**

“LC341”

It would probably be helpful to name the score, or name the model that is used to get to the score, 1) so that Lockchain gets credit for the data, and 2) Lockchain can make clear that this is a security risk score, not a financial risk .

# Headlining Lockchain

The following are some example headlines and copy to explain Lockchain.

**With new assets come new risks.**
Lockchain monitors your digital assets for trust, security, and resilience, and does so in real-time.

**Invest in digital assets safely.**

**React to the next blow-up faster than you ever thought possible.**

**Due diligence once a minute, not once a quarter.**

**The source of truth for trust, resilience, and security ratings of digital assets.**
Lockchain makes it possible to conduct due diligence once a minute, not once a quarter.

**Digital assets can be a scary market. Don’t go in blind.**
Trusted by [...], [...], and [...]. Lockchain makes it possible to anticipate, monitor, and react to major security and trust threats in digital assets.

**Digital assets are risky 24/7. Stay awake with Lockchain.**

**Lockchain sleeps with one eye open, so you don’t have to.**
Get access to Lockchain’s 24/7, real-time due diligence and automation platform, so you can avert the catastrophic events in the world of digital assets.

**Nobody knows before Lockchain.**

```
you kinda don't know what you don't know — lockchain provides visibility into that

look into Secureframe's messaging?

different risk profiles from the big dogs, not degens

visibility is for everyone, in the end
```

# Though the name will be fine, it *is* a weakness.

- It’s bad for SEO.
- It corrects to Lockchain.
- Everyone hears it incorrectly.
- It sounds like a cyber security company, rather than a risk management data source that monitors security.
- It does not sound like a name that would be next to a trusted rating like *Standard & Poor’s* or *Moody’s*.

I understand that a name change is a big move. Having named and renamed a few companies and products (The Optimism Company, Waybridge, Nation, Caro, Vellum), I’m happy to help here, though I recognize this is not part of the current assignment.

```
think about that core offering of visibility, and write some headlines specifically for that

there are institutional tailwinds, and we need to be that
```
